So now that we have our sign on with Google let's actually make our sign in with email but we are first
going to modify our sign in component so that it actually produces are signing with email start call
instead of doing it itself.
This is pretty much going to be the only place in the code base that we need to change as far as our
sign and component goes.
So what we're going to do is we are going to modify our code right here to remove this try block.
We don't need this doing it anymore for us.
We also don't need to call these libraries that we're bringing in from firebase utilize.
So let's just get rid of them and what we do need to do is we need to import in our email sign and start
method
which we will also now attach to our dispatch
now.
Similarly here what we're going to get back is an email and a password and what we're going to dispatch
out is this except we're going to pass it in as an object where the keys go to the values
and now we're gonna use this inside of our handle submit so we need to remember to D structure off this
from our prompts
and then we just simply call our email sign and start where we pass in our email and password.
Now you might be wondering why would we d structure this off of props if this is only the one place
where we're going to use it.
Would it not be easier just to call it.
This stuff prompts that email aside and start.
This is actually known as a better practice to just d structure off this way.
It's a little bit more verbose but reading it is actually way easier because you know that once you
d structure this value it helps if you don't see like this stop props everywhere.
It's just the better pattern for us to consistently follow in case you are wondering why we always do
structure.
So now that we have our email sign and star we go back to our saga and then we're going to listen for
it.
So let's bring in our email sign and success because we're going to we know we're going to write these
and now what we do is we make our new function
on email sign in start.
Just like our Google sign and start except this time we're listening for of course our email sign start
and then we're gonna pass it a similar function as our sign with Google except it'll be our sign in
with email.
Now we know what we're going to get is our payload right but we're gonna get our whole action when we
pass this function into our take latest call.
We're gonna get the entire action that we're catching here with our take latest and all we want off
of it is the payload.
So we're going to d structure off the payload and then we want to d structure off that email and the
password because that's all we want from our pallet.
And we know that the payload is coming in as an object and now what we're going to do is we are going
to put that on sign and that we had before inside of our sign and component into this saga.
So in order for us to put this in the saga we need to first create our tribe block right where we're
actually going to make the API request and this is going to catch the air exactly like we had earlier
and here in fact we can just call our sign in email or email sign and failure with our air and then
instead of a tribe block we are going to sign in and pluck off the user right.
Just like we had here.
Except we're using a different sign and method instead of using sign and with pop up we're using sign
in with email and password.
Now the lucky thing for us is that this off will give us back the same type of object that we got back
from our sign and with pop up.
So we know that we can just pluck that user off the same way that we did here and get our user off object
that we need to trigger the rest of this call.
In fact the rest of this call is going to be the exact same.
The only difference is that the method that we fire is not Google sign and success but email sign and
success.
Now if we save what we can do is we can just pass this into our user sagas as well.
And now inside of our signing component we just make sure that everything is wired and properly which
it is and let's check out our site.
So now if we click sign and with email we see we trigger EMR sign as star and we have a successful email
signing and our user is also storing the correct user.
So we've successfully migrated over our signing with email and our signing with Google into their own
respective sagas.
If we look at our saga we see that we're pretty much doing exactly what we had before except now we're
handling them in their individual saga so hopefully this make more sense once we went over it again
with sign and with email we write a listener that listens for the start call of our API call.
We give it the respective object if it needs.
Right.
So our email of course we need an email and password in order to trigger are off inside of the saga
whereas our Google did not.
Our Google will simply call the off the sign with pop up using the Google provider right.
Which will create the right pop up inside of our application.
Once that succeeds and the user selects the right user we get back our user off object that has the
actual user details on this user key.
We take it and we call our create user profile document method that we have in our firebase utilize
which gives us back our user ref.
It will also generate the snapshot if we need one and then once we have this we get the snapshot using
the user ref and then we just put out a success this success method will then update our user reducer
using this object that we pass to it which is our current user object and that's essentially it.
Now we can actually looking at this see that we can refactor this a little bit because it looks like
that we have pretty much the exact same thing here.
And here in fact the only difference is how we get the user object and the only difference is that here
we use our Google sign.
And here we use signing with email and password.
So this is a chance for us to actually refactor our code to make it a little bit more concise.
So what we can do is we can modify our user actions as well as our user action types so that instead
of having separate success and failure calls they have the same success and failure.
So here we'll just do a sign and success sign and failure which will represent both our email success
and our Google success and the respective failure as well.
We modify our actions so that instead we meet we know we need to keep our Google sign and start we know
we need to keep our email sign and start we don't need this Google sign in success and this Google sign
and failure nor do we need the email sign and success or email sign of failure because they are actually
the exact same thing except just with different action types.
And now we'll see that we have very similar code.
We don't need our separate user anymore because we're not using that action anymore and we're also going
to remove the reference to it inside of our app G.S. so here we'll get rid of that we'll get rid of
our call to set current user inside of our component did mount we'll also get rid of our map dispatch
the props because now our saga is handling setting our current user on success and then we also need
to make sure that our action types are referencing the correct one.
So no more Google sign and success.
Now it's sign in success and now in our sagas we've got to update our code to leverage the correct actions
as well.
So instead of Google sign in we're gonna use our new sign and success.
As well as our sign and failure.
Now if we save our application
hopefully we see that our silence and still works will trigger our Google sign in
and we see that it succeeds.
If we had our sign out right we actually are no longer listening.
As you remember inside of our app J.S. for our off state to change so our sign out while it's still
signing out in our firestorm back end.
It's not actually telling us that it is because we're not leveraging this listener code anymore so our
app has no way of knowing that we've signed up successfully.
But on another note we no longer have persistence either.
So if we refresh we'll see that we can sign in again so there we have both email and our Google sign
and leveraging the same sign and success methods now.
So we've managed to reduce our code down which is definitely a win in terms of refactoring.
In fact if we look at our sagas we can even see that we are pretty much copying the exact same code
here as we are here.
So we can move this into its own generator function as well.
So let's actually do that.
Let's make a new generator function called get a snapshot from user off which is going to give us a
user off object.
And then we're going to pretty much just duplicate this code.
Except we need the beginning of our tri and instead of passing and user we're gonna pass on our user
off and we're just going to leverage this function here by calling yield with our user
so just like we did with when we write reusable functions we just wrote a reusable generator function.
We know that both points we get our user auth objects from our respective off sign and methods and then
we pass it in.
And this will now perform the actual yet as well as the sign and failure.
Now we want to keep our own sign and failure catch blocks here as well because our sign and with pop
up in our sign and with email may also fail.
So we just gotta make sure that we also wrap anywhere where we have different API requests inside their
own try catch block and it's fine because we know what the sign and failure can work on any of our failures
or errors inside of the whole sign and process so we can use the same sign and failure method.
It's no problem for us.
And now that we have moved this into its own function we just got a double check to make sure that everything
still works.
Let's see
sign success.
Awesome.
Refresh and we'll try our sign in with email.
Also success.
Amazing.
So now we've managed to pretty much move the functionality of what we had before into this more commonly
seen promise oriented fetch style of using sagas.
So hopefully this made more sense now that we did a little bit of refactoring as well about what we
can do with sagas and how sagas can be composed if it's confusing.
Definitely don't worry I suggest you re watch these videos right sagas is by nature definitely more
confusing and if you're following along incredible you're going to be able to really leverage this pattern
in any professional react redux career that you end up following.
Now in the next lesson what we're gonna do is we're going to recreate that persistence that we had before
in our application.
So instead before when we had this listener on our component did mount doing for it we're gonna functionally
check against the auth library to see if our user session is still persisted.
So we'll do that in the next lesson.